Q19.

Q 20.

Q21.

Q 23.

Q 24.

Astock exchange has ON LINE SURVEILLANCE capability to monitor the
Volumes
Prices
Positions
All of the above

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

All modern stock exchanges have highly developed online surveillance sytems to monitor the volumes / position and prices of all listed products and also check any unusual activity etc. in them.

Equities can also be traded through Professional Clearing Members.
True
False

> WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

False

Explanation:

Professional clearing member clears the trades of his associate Trading Member and institutional clients. He need not be a member of an exchange.

Important element (s) of risk management in the derivatives segment is (are) :
Monitoring capital adequacy requirements of members
Regular evaluation of trading members positions
Collection of Margins
All of the above

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Exchanges, with the help of Clearing Corporations, manage the risk in the derivatives segment using a comprehensive risk containment mechanism.
There are stringent requirements of capital adequacy for membership (Financial strength of a member)

The most critical component of risk containment mechanism for F&O segment is the margining system and online position monitoring.

Whatis a covered call ?
Its a strategy to sell calls at various strike prices to profit from the premium received
Its used to generate extra income from existing holdings in the cash market.
Its a strategy of buying a call and sell its future for hedgeing
Its done by buying a call and put of the same strike price.

% WRONG ANSWER

CORRECT ANSWER:

Its used to generate extra income from existing holdings in the cash market.

4a

Explanation:

Acovered call is an options trading strategy where an investor sells (writes) a call option while owning the underlying stock. This strategy helps generate extra income through the premium received from selling
the call.

How It Works:

- The trader already owns the stock in the cash market.

- They sell a call option on the same stock, collecting a premium.

- If the stock price remains below the strike price, the trader keeps the premium as profit.

- If the stock price rises above the strike price, the trader may have to sell the stock at the strike price, potentially limiting their upside gains.

A trader buys a call and a put option of same strike price and same expiry. This is called as
Butterfly
Short Straddle
Long Straddle
Calendar Spread

/ CORRECTANSWER a
Explanation:

To do a long straddle strategy one has to buy a call and a put option of the same strike price and expiry. Together, they produce a position which will lead to profits if the market / stock is very volatile and it makes
a big move - either up or down.

For eg- A person buys a Rs 200 call at Rs 30 and a Rs 200 put at Rs 20 of a stock. If the stock rises significantly the call will rise greatly but his put will fall by maximum Rs 20. So he makes a good profit. If the
stock falls significantly, he loses his call money buy gains greatly in the put option as it rises.

Thus the Long Straddle is used when a trader expects a big move in the stock - in any direction is ok.

Position limits have been designed to
prevent the markets from being wrongly influenced by Government policies
support the market and determine its movements
stop the markets being wrongly influenced by the trading activities of investor(s)
all of the above

Y CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:
Position limits are the maximum exposure levels which the entire market can go up to and each Clearing Member or investor can go up to.

Position limits for the entire market and Clearing Members and investors are defined by SEBI.