Q 30.

Q 32.

Q33.

Q34.

Longer the time to expiry/maturity of a call option, higher will be the time value.
False
True

Vv CORRECTANSWER

Explanation:
Time value of the option depends upon how much time is remaining for the option to expire.

Longer the maturity of the option greater is the uncertainty and hence the higher premiums.

A buyer of Put Option —
Has the obligation to take delivery of asset
Has the right to buy the underlying asset
Has the right to sell the underlying asset
Has the obligation to give delivery of asset

> WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Has the right to sell the underlying asset
Explanation: 4

Put Option Is an option contract giving the owner the right, but not the obligation, to sell a specified amount of an underlying security at a specified price within a specified time. This Is the opposite of a call
option, which gives the holder the right to buy shares.

So an Option, which gives buyer a right to buy the underlying asset, is called Call option and the option which gives buyer a right to sell the underlying asset, is called Put option. There is no obligation when you
buy an option.

In the derivatives market, all the margins are collected by
Margin House
SEBI
Clearing House
Clearing Banks

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Responsibilities of the Clearing House / Corporation include:
- Collection of Margins on timely basis
- Smooth operation of the Market

- Daily Clearing and Settlement etc.

A person sells a put option of Strike Price 265, market lot 1000, at a premium of Rs 40, the maximum profit he can make is i
Rs 25,000
Rs 2,65,000
Rs 40,000
Unlimited

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

The maximum profit for a seller of an option is the premium he receives. In this case he has received Rs 40. The Lot size is 1000.

So the maximum profit he can make is 40 x 1000 = Rs 40,000.

When you buy a put option on a stock you are owning, this strategy is called
Straddle
writing a covered call
calender spread
protective put

¥ CORRECT ANSWER A
Explanation:

Protective Put is a a risk-management strategy that investors can use to guard against the loss of unrealized gains.

‘The put option acts like an insurance policy - it costs money, which reduces the investor's potential gains from owning the security, but it also reduces his risk of losing money if the security declines in value.