Q92.

Q93.

Qo4.

Qos.

Q96.

Qo7.

The Derivative markets mostly comprises of —
Long term investors
Hedgers
Speculators
Both 2 and 3

Y CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Long term investors buy stocks in Cash market for delivery. Hedgers and Speculators are active in the derivative markets.

As per the Income Tax Act, any loss on derivatives transaction can be set-off against income in the same year.
Any other business
House property
Salary
Capital gains

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Any other business
Explanation: “

Finance Act, 2005 implies that income or loss on derivative transactions which are carried out in a “recognized stock exchange” is not taxed as speculative income or loss. Thus, loss on derivative transactions
can be set off against any other income during the year (except salary income).

Delta is the change in option price given a one-day decrease in time to expiration - State True or False ?
True
False

v CORRECT ANSWER EN
Explanation:

The most important of the ‘Greeks’ is the option’s is “Delta”. This measures the sensitivity of the option value to a given small change in the spot price of the underlying asset. It may also be seen as the speed
with which an option moves with respect to price of the underlying asset.

measure of the sensitivity of an option price to changes in market volatility.
Rho
Theta
Gamma
Vega

v CORRECT ANSWER 4a
Explanation:

Vega represents the amount of price changes in an option in reaction to a 1% change in the volatility of the underlying asset.

Volatility measures the amount and speed at which price moves up and down, and is often based on changes in recent, historical prices in a trading instrument. Vega changes when there are large price
movements (increased volatility) in the underlying asset, and falls as the option approaches expiration.

Vega = Change in an option premium/ Change in volatility

Clearing Corporation acts as a legal counterparty to all trades on F&O segment and also guarantees their financial settlement. True / False.
True
False

v CORRECT ANSWER

Explanation:

Clearing Corporation or the Clearing House is responsible for clearing and settlement of all trades executed on the F&O Segment of the Exchange.
Clearing Corporation acts as a legal counterparty to all trades on this segment and also guarantees their financial settlement.

The Clearing and Settlement process comprises of three main activities, viz., Clearing, Settlement and Risk Management.

Arbitrage is a tool used to protects ones portfolio against any downturn by going short in index. True or False ?
True
False

¥ CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:

To protect ones portfolio against any downturn by going short in index is called Hedgeing.

Arbitrage is a tool to use price differences in different markets to make a profit.

Acall option is said to be , when spot price is higher than strike price.
At the money
Out of the money
In the money
European

> WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

In the money
Explanation: a
Acall option with a strike price that is lower than the market price of the underlying asset, or a put option with a strike price that is higher than the market price of the underlying asset.

For example, consider a stock that is trading at Rs 100. For such a stock, call options with strike prices below Rs 100 would be In-the-money calls ( ie Rs 80, Rs 90 calls) while put options with strike prices above
Rs 100 (Rs 110 , Rs 120 calls etc.)would be In-the-money puts.

For easy understanding, those calls or puts which are profitable are In-the-Money.