Q35.

Q36.

Q 37.

Beta is the change in option price given a one percentage point change in the risk-free interest rate.
True
False

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

False

Explanation:
Rho is the change in option price given a one percentage point change in the risk-free interest rate.

Beta a measure of systematic risk of a security that cannot be avoided through diversification.

If futures price are lower than spot price of an asset, market participants may expect the spot price to come down in future. This situation is called —
Contango
Reverse System
Backwardation
Impact costs

¥ CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:
As per the Expectancy Model of Future Pricing - If future prices are higher than spot prices (over the normal cost of carry) we can expect the spot prices to go up in future. This is called as Contango.

Similarly, if the future prices are lower than spot prices, we can expect the spot prices to go down and this Is called as Backwardation.

The networth of clearing members does not include -
Bad Deliveries
Doubtful Debts
Unlisted Securities
All of the Above

¥ CORRECT ANSWER

Explanation:
The networth of the member shall be computed as follows:

- Capital + Free reserves
- Less non-allowable assets which are :

o Fixed assets

o Pledged securities

o Member’s card

0 Non-allowable securities (unlisted securities)
o Bad deliveries

o Doubtful debts and advances

o Prepaid expenses

o Intangible assets

o 30% marketable securities

¥eu po manciauie scuurUSs

The spot price of ABC share is Rs 500, the call option of Strike Price Rs 500 is —
In the money
Out of the money
At the money
None of the above

¥ CORRECT ANSWER 4a
Explanation:

At the Money - A situation where an option's strike price is identical to the price of the underlying security. Both call and put options will be simultaneously "at the money."

For example, if XYZ stock is trading at 100, then the XYZ 100 call option is at the money and so is the XYZ 100 put option. An at-the-money option has no intrinsic value, but may still have time value. Options
trading activity tends to be high when options are at the money.