Q24.

Q25.

A fall in the price of Wipro stock will increase the value of the Wipro call option - State True or False?
True
False

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

In normal market, price of a call option rises with a rise in the underlying stock price and the premium falls if the price of the underlying stock falls.

So, if the price of Wipro falls, the value of Wipro call option will also fall.

Mr. Sunil places a stop loss sell order on ABC stock with a trigger price of Rs. 450. The current market price of ABC stock is Rs 470. The order will be released for execution
As soon as the market price of ABC touches Rs. 470
As soon as the market price of ABC touches Rs. 450
As soon as the order is placed in the system
If similar orders are available in the order book at Rs. 450

> WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

As soon as the market price of ABC touches Rs. 450
Explanation: A
AStop Loss Sell Order is designed to limit losses by triggering a sell when the stock price falls to a certain level (called the trigger price).

* In this case, Mr. Sunil has set a trigger price of Rs. 450, and the current market price is Rs. 470.

* The stop loss sell order is inactive until the market price falls to Rs. 450.
* Once the stock touches or drops below Rs. 450, the order is released to the exchange for execution at the best available price (depending on whether it's a market or limit order).

Put-call parity refers to the relationship between: .
call and put options on the same stock with the same strike prices and same maturity
put and call options on the same stock but different strike prices and different maturity
call options on the same stock with the same maturity but different strike prices
futures and options on the same stock

v CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Arbitrage strategies can be executed whenever the traded price of a futures contract deviates from its fair or theoretical price or whenever the traded price of an option deviates from its fair price,

Such arbitrage is based on an important principle known as ‘put-call parity’. It simply states the relationship between calls and puts with the same strike price and time to maturity.

If the clearing / trading member fails to pay the dues, the clearing corporation can disable the clearing / trading members from trading - State True or False?
True
False

¥ CORRECT ANSWER

Explanation:
The Clearing Corporation has powers to levy additional margins, special margins, define maximum exposure limits and disable brokers from trading.

Trade Guarantee Fund (TGF) is maintained for :
Protecting the interests of investors
Inculcating confidence in the minds of investors and brokers
Guaranteeing the settlement of trades
All of the above

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

All of the above

Explanation:

Main objectives of Trade Guarantee Fund (TGF):

- To guarantee settlement of bonafide transactions of the members of the exchange.
+ To inculcate confidence in the minds of market participants.

- To protect the interest of the investors in securities.

All active members of the Exchange are required to make initial contribution towards Trade Guarantee Fund of the Exchange.