Q34.

Q35.

236.

Identify the FALSE statement.
For Call Options : With decrease in strike price, the premium on call increases
For Call Options : With increase in strike price, the premium on call increases
For Put Options : With increase in strike price, the premium on put increases
For Put Options : With decrease in strike price, the premium on put decreases

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

For Call Options : With increase in strike price, the premium on call increases

Explanation:
Call Option Premium Behavior:

ACall Option gives the buyer the right (but not the obligation) to buy an asset at a specified strike price before expiration.

© If the strike price decreases, the option becomes more attractive because the buyer can purchase the asset at a cheaper price. This increases the premium. (Statement 4 is TRUE)
* Conversely, if the strike price increases, the call option becomes less attractive, reducing the premium. (Statement 2 is FALSE)

Put Option Premium Behavior:
A Put Option gives the buyer the right to sell an asset at a specified strike price before expiration.

© If the strike price increases, the put option becomes more valuable since the asset can be sold at a higher price, leading to a higher premium. (Statement 3 is TRUE)
© If the strike price decreases, the put option becomes less attractive, leading to a lower premium. (Statement 4is TRUE)

Conclusion: Since statement 2 contradicts the basic principle of call options, it is the false statement.

guarantees the performance of exchange traded contracts.
Clearing Corporation
SEBI
Depositories
Custodians

v CORRECT ANSWER 4a
Explanation:

Clearing Corporation is responsible for clearing and settlement of all trades executed in the F&O Segment of the Exchange. According to the legal principle of ‘novation’, the Clearing Corporation becomes the
central counterparty to all trades that take place on the exchange’s derivatives platform.

Aclearing corporation guarantees contract performance (settlement of transactions).

If there is no cross margining between cash and derivative segments of an exchange, this will
Promotes economic inefficiency
Increase the cost of trading
Reduces the volumes for given level of risk capital in the economy
All of the above

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

All of the above
Explanation: 4
If cross margining is not allowed between the cash and derivative segments, it leads to the following:

Promotes economic inefficiency -Without cross margining, traders must maintain separate margins for positions that may offset each other (e.g., long in cash and short in futures), which is inefficient from a
capital utilization perspective.

Increases the cost of trading - More margin requirements mean higher capital tied up, increasing the opportunity cost and overall trading cost.

Reduces the volumes for a given level of risk capital in the economy - Since capital is not optimally used, the same amount of risk capital supports fewer trades, reducing trading volumes.

How should a seller of an option treat the premium received in his books of accounts?
It should be treated as an Income
It should be treated as an Expense
It should be treated as an Asset
It should be treated as a Liability

¥ CORRECTANSWER A
Explanation:

‘The buyer/ holder of the option is required to pay the premium. In the books of the buyer/ holder, such premium should be debited to an appropriate account, say, "Equity Index/ Stock Option Premium Account".

In the books of the seller/ writer such premium received should be credited to an appropriate account, say, "Equity Index/ Stock Option Premium Account".
