Q19.

Q 20.

Q21.

Q22.

Q23.

In a calendar spread transaction, the trader takes opposite position in two futures contract with
two different underlying assets and same delivery month
two differently delivery months and two different underlying assets
two differently delivery months and same underlying asset
one stock and one index of same delivery months

¥ CORRECT ANSWER

Explanation:

Calendar spread position is a combination of two positions in futures on the same underlying - long on one maturity contract and short on a different maturity contract. For instance, a short position in
near month contract coupled with a long position in far month contract is a calendar spread position.

When a seller SHORT SELLS a stock, it means :
He has more than a months time to deliver the stock which he sold
He owns the stock he is supposed to deliver
He has to deliver the stock within a short time
He does not own the stock he is supposed to deliver

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Selling Short means Seller does not own the stock he is supposed to deliver.

He has done a sale trade because he expects the price to fall and has to buy back the stock (either with a profit or loss) before the end of trading on that day.

The simultaneous purchase and sale of two different tenors futures contracts in the same underlying is known as a
Limit order
Short hedge
Spread trade
Long hedge

XX wRoNc ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Spread trade

Explanation:
In case of a Spread Trade, two opposite positions (one long and one short) are taken either in two contracts with same maturity on different products or in two contracts with different maturities on
the same product.

If the volatility of the underlying stock is decreasing, the premium of call option would
Increase
Decrease
will not change
None of the above

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Lower the volatility lower the risk and so lower the premium.

The stocks which are highly volatile will have comparatively higher option premiums as there involves a lot of risk trading in such stocks.

Excess of premium in an option over the intrinsic value is known as the time value - State True or False ?
False
True

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

True

Explanation:
Option premium consists of two components - intrinsic value and time value. Option premium is the sum of intrinsic value and time value.

Time value is the difference between premium and intrinsic value. ATM and OTM options will have only time value because the intrinsic value of such options is zero.

As per news, the Government can lose a vote of confidence and this can affect the stock markets pretty badly. If you are an active trader, what is the ideal step you will take?
Buy index futures
Sell index futures
Double your portfolio holdings
Buy Blue Chip shares

¥ CORRECTANSWER “
Explanation:

In case of a negative news like fall of a Government, the stock markets generally fall. Its difficult to judge which stocks will fall more. So, the best way is to short the index futures as the index is bound to fall in
response to a negative news and the active trader can profit from it.
