Q30.

Q31.

Q32.

Q33.

Q35.

The equity shares which have been given by the clearing members to the clearing corporation as a part of liquid assets are generally NOT marked to market on a regular basis - State
True or False?

True
False

¥ CORRECT ANSWER 4
Explanation:

The equity shares which are kept with clearing corporation as a part of liquid assets are marked to market at regular intervals to check if their value has fallen down. If there is a fall, additional liquid assets will
have to be kept.

(For eg, In NSE, the securities are valued based on the closing price of the security at NSE. The value of the securities is reduced by such haircut as may be prescribed by the Clearing Corporation from time to time to arrive at the collateral value
of the security. The hair cut applicable shall be as specified in the monthly circular for approved list of securities. Only the value net of applicable haircuts shall be considered as the value of the securities pledged. Valuation of securities are done
by approved custodians at periodic intervals as specified by the Clearing Corporation from time to time.)

In the Indian derivatives exchange, the matching of bids and offers take place
online and immediately
at the day's end
at the end of each hour
at the end of each minute

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

In India, derivatives platforms offer an order driven market, wherein orders match automatically online on price time priority basis.

Orders, as and when they are received, are first time stamped and then immediately processed for potential match. If a match is not found, then the orders are stored in different ‘books’.

gives the right to sell an asset for a certain price on or before a specified date.
European Call option
European Put option
American Call option
American Put option

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

A Put Option gives the holder the right to sell the underlying asset on or before a particular date for a certain price.
American option: The owner of such option can exercise his right at any time on or before the expiry date/day of the contract.

(European option: The owner of such option can exercise his right only on the expiry date/day of the contract. In India, all Index and stock options are European)

Identify the CORRECT statement from the given options -
Aprofessional clearing member has the permission to trade on his own account as well as clear trades for others
Amember, who is registered as self-clearing member on derivatives exchange can also clear trades of other trading members
Atrading member on a registered derivatives exchange need not be registered with SEBI
Amember who is registered as trading member on derivatives exchange will not have clearing rights

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

A member who is registered as trading member on derivatives exchange will not have clearing rights

Explanation: 4a
A Professional Clearing Member (PCM) is not allowed to trade on their own account.

A Self-Clearing Member (SCM) can only clear and settle trades for themselves and not for other trading members.

All trading members of derivatives exchanges in India must be registered with SEBI as per SEBI regulations.

A Trading Member (TM) is only allowed to execute trades and does not have clearing rights. Therefore - A member who is registered as trading member on derivatives exchange will not have clearing rights is
correct.

As per the Income Tax Act, any loss on derivatives transaction can be set-off against which income in the same year?
Income from Salary
Income from Capital Gains
Income from any other business
Income from House property

%X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Income from any other business
Explanation: A

Finance Act, 2005 implies that income or loss on derivative transactions which are carried out in a “recognized stock exchange” is not taxed as speculative income or loss. Thus, loss on derivative transactions
can be set off against any other income during the year (except salary income).

Mr. Jones buys a put option with higher strike price and at the same time sells another put option with lower strike price, both on the same underlying share and same expiration date.
This strategy is known as :

Butterfly spread

Calendar spread

Bearish spread

Bullish spread

%X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Bearish spread
Explanation: 4

Bearish Vertical Spread using Puts : A trader is bearish on the market and so goes long in one put option with higher strike price by paying a premium. Further, to reduce his cost, he shorts another low strike put
and receives a premium.

This is done on the same underlying with same expiry date.