The IPF (Investor Protection Fund) for the derivatives segment is
Same as that of cash segment
Independent of that of cash segment
There is no IPF in derivatives segment
100% Contributed by Ministry of Finance

¥ CORRECT ANSWER a
Explanation:

Clearing corporations are required to have in place a Core Settlement Guarantee Fund (Core SGF). The primary objective of the Core SGF is to have a fund for each segment (for e.g., Cash, F&O, CD, etc.) to
guarantee the settlement of trades executed in the respective segment of the stock exchange.

The Investor Protection Fund Trust, based on the recommendations of the Member and Core Settlement Guarantee Fund Committee, compensates the investors to the extent of funds found insufficient in
Defaulters’ account to meet the admitted value of claim.

Mr. Sriniwas takes a short position in a call option but does not take any offsetting position in the underlying stock. This strategy is known as
Writing a covered call
Writing a naked call
Butterfly strategy
Protective put strategy

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:
Naked position in options market simply means a long or short position in any option contract without having any position in the underlying asset.

When one sells (short) a call it is also known as ‘writing’ a call.

So the above strategy is - Writing a naked call option.

With regards to futures market, BASIS is the ‘
price of the underlying stock
difference in price between spot and future prices
risk free rate of interest
volatility in the stock

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

‘The difference between the spot price and the futures price is called basis.

If the futures price is greater than spot price, basis for the asset is negative. Similarly, if the spot price is greater than futures price, basis for the asset is positive.

If the futures price of a stock is and open interest of the futures contract of that stock is , then it signals a bullish trend.
Falling , Rising
Rising , Falling
Rising , Rising
Falling , Falling

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Rising , Rising
Explanation:
Traders can decide whether to buy or sell futures based on changes in the open interest and the futures price.

For eg - If the futures price is rising and open interest of the futures contract is also increasing, it signals a bullish trend. Traders usually prefer to go long the futures in such situations.

Each forward contract can have a different delivery location, a different maturity date and a different contract size. State whether True or False?
True
False

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

True

Explanation:
Forward contract is a contractual agreement between two parties to buy/sell an underlying asset at a certain future date for a particular price that is pre-decided on the date of contract.

Since forwards are negotiated between two parties, the terms and conditions of contracts are customized. Each contract can have a different delivery location, maturity date and contract size.

State whether True or False - The Clearing Corporation of an Exchange has the power to disable a defaulting trading member from trading further.
True
False

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

The Clearing Corporation has powers to levy additional margins, special margins, define maximum exposure limits and disable brokers from trading.

Mr. Ashish had purchased 25 PUT options on a stock X by paying a premium of Rs 20 per put (strike price of Rs 180). The stock price has closed at Rs 240 on the exercise date. In such a
situation. Mr. Ashish will choose to

Exercise the option

Not to exercise the option

Exercise the option but should decline giving delivery of the underlying

Exercise the option as he likes the company X and its management

v CORRECT ANSWER sa
Explanation:

Mr. Ashish has bought Put options assuming that prices will fall and he will make a profit.

But the price has risen and he is in a loss. So he will choose not to exercise his option. His loss will be restricted to the premium paid.