In a one-month CALL option on PQR stock with a strike price of Rs. 700 is Out-of-the money. Identify which of these could be the spot price of PQR stock?
Rs. 650
Rs. 700
Rs. 750
Inadequate information

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Rs. 650
Explanation: 4a

Out-of-the-money option is one with strike price worse than the spot price for the holder of option. In other words, this option would give the holder a negative cash flow if it were exercised immediately. A call
option is said to be OTM, when spot price is lower than strike price.

In the above question, the strike price is 700, therefore, when the spot price of 650, it will be Out-of-the-money call option.

Ue Identify the FALSE statement with respect to Impact Cost.

Impact cost is also to be considered while selecting stocks to be included in the index
Impact cost is the same for the seller and the buyer of the stock

Impact cost varies as per the transaction size

Impact cost of a stock is a measure of its liquidity

¥ CORRECT ANSWER A
Explanation:

Impact cost represents the cost of executing a transaction in a given stock, for a specific predefined order size, at any given point of time. It is the cost that a buyer or seller of stocks incurs while executing a
transaction due to the prevailing liquidity condition on the counter.

Impact cost can be different for buyers and sellers. For eg. - If there less sellers of a particular security in the market, then the impact cost will be higher for the buyers and vice versa.

Qos. F _—
is an example of a derivative on energy resources.

Silver futures
Copper futures
Natural gas futures
Rubber futures

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Natural gas futures

Explanation:

Derivatives are also based on energy resources such as Oil (crude oil, products, cracks), Coal, Electricity, Natural Gas, etc.

25 Which function of the Exchange is focussed at maintaining stability in the derivatives market?

Risk Management

Investor grievance handling
Arbitration

Listing

> WRONG ANSWER

CORRECT ANSWER:

Risk Management

Explanation: 4a

Derivatives market enables the shift of speculative trades from unorganized market to organized market. Risk management mechanism and surveillance of activities of various participants in organized space
provide stability to the financial system.

Q57. Which are the two most important things to be considered while constructing an index?

Liquidity and market capitalisation
Impact cost and tracking error
Risk and return

Diversification and liquidity

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Diversification and liquidity
Explanation:

A good index is a trade-off between diversification and liquidity. A well-diversified index reflects the behaviour of the overall market/economy.

258 Mr. Surya has gone long on April Futures on ABC stock at 1200. He will make a loss if futures price move to

1250
1375
1225
1175

> WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

M75
Explanation: A

A long futures position will be loss making if the price falls below the purchase price. In the above question, the purchase price is Rs 1200. Therefore, when the futures price moves to Rs 1175, there will be
losses.