277. What does ‘Contract Month' mean?

The month of beginning of the futures contract
The month of expiry of futures contract

The month in which the transaction is done
None of the above

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Contract month is the maturity (expiry) month of the contract.

For eg - A trader may buy a March month contract in January. But the contract month will be March.

278 How can an open position in a futures contract be closed?
It has to be closed compulsorily before maturity
It can be closed by intra day transactions only
It can be closed only at maturity
It can be closed anytime on or before the date of maturity through reversed (square-off) transaction
X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:
It can be closed anytime on or before the date of maturity through reversed (square-off) transaction
Explanation:
A futures position can be closed anytime before the maturity date by squaring off the transaction.
79: If you are a seller of put option, you expect of the underlying asset.
No change in the price
Increase in the price
Both of the above
Decrease in the price
X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:
Both of the above
Explanation:
When you sell a put option you expect the price to rise. Even if the price remains stable, you earn the option premium.
Therefore, a seller of a put options gains in both ways - stable price or increase in price of the underlying.
Q80.

An investor has implemented a Short Hedge using stock futures. This is done to protect
The investor's existing stock holding against an anticipated price fall
Against a price rise for a planned stock purchase in the future
Against both a stock price fall and stock price rise in the future
Against a fall in the market as a whole

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

The investor’s existing stock holding against an anticipated price fall
Explanation: 4
Ashort hedge using stock futures is taken to hedge the price risk of a planned future sale of a stock.

For eg. You are holding Reliance Industries share of Rs 10 lacs and need this money after 3 months. You can sell the 3-month futures of Reliance Industries to protect the amount which you need. Even if the price
falls, the future amount is secured by this hedge. This is call Short Hedge.

Qe. Which of these complaints against a trading member can the Exchange take up for redressal?

Any loss in a transaction which is not within the framework of an exchange
Any claim for expenses done for pursuing the matter with ISC

Any claim for opportunity loss for a disputed trade

When excess brokerage is charged by the broker

2 WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

When excess brokerage is charged by the broker

Explanation:

Complaints against trading members on account of the following can be taken by an Exchange for redressal :
- Non-receipt of funds / securities

- Non- receipt of documents such as member client agreement, contract notes, settlement of accounts, order trade log etc.
- Non-Receipt of Funds / Securities kept as margin

- Trades executed without adequate margins

- Delay /non — receipt of funds

- Squaring up of positions without consent

- Unauthorized transaction in the account

- Excess Brokerage charged by Trading Member

- Unauthorized transfer of funds from commodities account to other accounts etc.