213. initial Margin can be paid by 7

Bank guarantee
Bank transfer of funds
Acceptable securities
All of the above

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

All of the above

Explanation:
The amount one needs to deposit in the margin account at the time of entering into a futures contract is known as the initial margin.

This can be paid by Cash, Bank Guarantee, Fixed Deposit Receipts and approved securities etc.

@ 14 Which of these is true for an ‘In-the-money' option ?

O'In-the-money' has a negative intrinsic value

O'ln-the-money’ option has zero time value

O'In-the-money' option cannot be profitably exercised by the holder immediately
O'ln-the-money' has a positive intrinsic value

215: A CALL OPTION will give the buyer the .

Right to sell the underlying asset
Right to buy the underlying asset
Obligation to sell the underlying asset
Obligation to buy the underlying asset

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

A call option gives the buyer the right but not the obligation to buy from the seller an underlying asset at the prevailing market price on or before the expiry date.

In the derivatives exchange, the networth requirement for a clearing member is less than that of a non-clearing member - State whether true or false?
OTrue
O False

The New York stock exchange has two important indices - Dow Jones (DJIA) and Standard and Poor 500 (S&P 500). The DuIAis a
Very Liquid , Very Illiquid
Fully Diversified, Fully Concentrated
Narrow , Broad
Broad , Narrow

index where as the S&P 500 is a index.

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Narrow , Broad

Explanation: 4
‘The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) a stock market index of 30 prominent companies listed on stock exchanges in the United States.

The Standard and Poor's 500, or simply the S&P 500, is a stock market index tracking the stock performance of 500 large companies listed on stock exchanges in the United States.

Therefore, Dow Jones can be considered as narrow index as it covers only 30 companies where as S&P is a broad index as it covers 500 companies.

Identify the correct statement for ‘In-the-money’ Call Option?
Strike price will be higher than the market price
Strike price will be zero
Exercise price would be equal to the market price
Strike price will be lower than the market price

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Strike price will be lower than the market price
Explanation:
An In-the-Money (ITM) Call Option occurs when:

© The strike price (also called exercise price) is less than the current market price of the underlying asset.
* This gives the option holder the right to buy the asset below market value, which has intrinsic value.

Example of ITM Call Option : If a stock is trading at Rs. 120 and the call option has a strike price of Rs. 100:

© The option is Rs. 20 in-the-money
e The holder can buy at Rs. 100 and potentially sell at Rs. 120