Q38.

A member has two client M and N. M has bought 300 contracts and N has sold 250 contracts in October ABC futures series. Calculate the outstanding liability (open position) of the
member towards Clearing Corporation in number of contracts?

550

50

300

NIL

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

550

Explanation:
While calculating the outstanding liability of a member, the total of all clients open position is taken into account. The positions cannot be netted against two clients.

So in the above case the total open position is 300 + 250 = 550 contracts.

In the books of account of the client, the balance in the Initial Margin account on the Balance Sheet date must be shown under the head
Reserves and surplus
Investments
Current Liabilities
Current Assets

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:
Current Assets

Explanation: A

The buyer and seller of futures contract and the seller/ writer of the options is required to pay initial margin for entering into the such contract. It should be debited to an appropriate account. In the balance sheet,
such account should be shown separately under the head "Current Assets".

Calculate the Intrinsic Value for the following Call option :
Current price of the stock - Rs. 340.
Call option of strike price Rs. 300 is quoted at Rs. 56

Rs. 16

Rs. 40

Rs. 56

NIL

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

When the Strike Price is below the Spot Price, the Call Option is 'In the Money’ ie. profitable.
Intrinsic Value for a such a Call Option = Spot Price - Strike Price
= 340 - 300

=40

The key to determining if a futures transaction is for hedging or speculation lies in
basic intention of the person entering into the transaction
whether there already exists a related commercial position which is has a risk of loss due to price movement
whether the futures position is held till expiry date
whether the transaction has resulted in a profit or a loss

v CORRECT ANSWER A
Explanation:
Hedging basically means doing a trade to reduce the risk of adverse price movements in an asset. Normally, a hedge consists of taking an offsetting position in a related security, such as a futures contract.

An example of a hedge would be if you owned a stock, then sold a futures contract stating that you will sell your stock at a set price, therefore avoiding market fluctuations.

Who decides the daily settlement price for equity derivatives contracts?
ICAL
RBI
SEB!
The Clearing Corporation / The Exchange

XX WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

The Clearing Corporation / The Exchange
Explanation:
The exchange follows a daily settlement procedure for open positions in equity index and stock futures contracts.

All open positions are settled daily based on the daily settlement price of the futures contracts, which is calculated by the exchange on the basis of the last half-an-hour weighted average price of that futures
contract.