Qo4.

Q95.

Q97.

Q98.

Shorter the time to maturity of the call option, higher will be the time value - State whether True or False ?
True
False

2 WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

False

Explanation:
Other things being equal, options tend to lose time value each day throughout their life. This is due to the fact that the uncertainty element in the price decreases.

Thus shorter the time to maturity, lower will be the time value.

Mr. Anand asks his broker to buy certain number of contracts at the market price, this instruction is called,
arbitrage order
limit order
stop loss order
market order

v CORRECT ANSWER

Explanation:
Amarket order is an order to buy or sell a contract at the best bid/offer price currently available in the market. Price is not specified at the time of placing this order.

A Client Registration form contains client's
investment objectives
background
beneficial identity
all of the above

¥ CORRECTANSWER 4
Explanation:

While opening a clients account, the broker should know some important details of his clients. Therefore the Client Registration form asks for deatils on the backgroung of the client ( to know if there is a criminal
background or is not banned in any other manner, whether in terms of criminal or civil proceedings by any enforcement agency worldwide).

The client should be identified by the intermediary by using reliable sources including documents/information. The intermediary should obtain adequate information to satisfactorily establish the identity of each
new client and the purpose of the intended nature of the relationship.

Any person who wishes to open a Trading Account must be given the following documents by his trading member -
Complete version of all the laws of SEBI
Risk disclosure document
All the rules & regulations of the exchange
SEBI guidelines on the subject

¥ CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:

The broker is required to get a Risk Disclosure Document signed by the client, at the time of client registration.

The ‘ASK’ price is always 2
greater than the bid price
equal to bid price
lower than the bid price
none of the above

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

greater than the bid price

Explanation:

Bid and Ask price means the Buyer and Seller price.

For eg price of a stock as quoted on a stock market is Rs. 100 - 101.
So 100 is the Bid price and 101 is the Ask price.

The Ask will always be higher than Bid price.

Mr. Mohan entered into a contract with Mr. Soham to buy 500 bags of Cotton at a price of Rs 800 per bag. Delivery of goods and payment of money will take place 4 months from now.
Both Mr. Mohan and Mr. Soham have a right as well as an obligation under this contract. What type of contract is this?

Options

Forwards

Futures

Swaps

¥ CORRECTANSWER a
Explanation:

Forward contract is an agreement made directly between two parties to buy or sell an asset on a specific date in the future, at the terms decided today. There is no Stock Exchange, Commodity Exchange
etc.involved.