Qi.

Q2.

Q3.

Q4

Q6.

Can Professional Clearing members act only on behalf of institutional clients ?
Yes
No

v¥ CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:

Professional clearing member clears the trades of his associate Trading Member and institutional clients.

Trading members shall maintain a higher level of Book networth than the clearing members - State True or False ?
True
False

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Clearing Members have to maintain higher book networth than trading members.

If you have a long or short position in a futures contract, this can be closed by initiating a reverse trade - True or False ?
True
False

v CORRECT ANSWER A

Explanation:
Closing a position means either buying or selling a contract, which essentially results in reduction of client’s open position (long or short). A client is said to be closed a position if he sells a contract which he
had bought before or he buys a contract which he had sold earlier.

The idea and economic rational of introducing forward contracts is to.
help arbitrage
help trading
help hedgeing
both 1 and 3

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

help hedgeing
Explanation:
The essential idea of entering into a forward is to fix the price and thereby avoid the price risk. By entering into forwards, one is assured of the price at which one can buy/sell an underlying asset.

Thus Forward contracts are basically meant for hedgeing / managing the risks.

As per Accounting Standards, the initial margin paid by an option seller is shown under in the balance sheet
Bad Debts
Fixed Assets
Current Assets
Current Liabilities

XX WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Current Assets
Explanation:
The seller/ writer of the option is required to pay initial margin for entering into the option contract and its should be debited to an appropriate account, say, "Equity Index/ Stock Option Margin Account".

In the balance sheet, such account should be shown separately under the head "Current Assets".

Aperson who is bullish and a payer of premium is a “
buyer of call option
seller of call option
buyer of put option
seller of put option

v CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

A buyer of a Call is bullish and believes that the price will rise. He pays a premium which is his maximum loss but the profits can be unlimited.