Q49.

Q50.

Q51.

Q54.

In case of Call options, if the market price is less than the exercise (strike) price, the option will
expire worthless
seller of the option will exercise it
will definitely get exercised
none of the above

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

expire worthless

Explanation:

A Gall Option gives the holder (buyer) the right, but not the obligation, to buy an asset at the exercise (strike) price before or at expiration.

- If the market price is less than the strike price, the option holder would not exercise the option because they can buy the asset at a lower price in the open market.

- As a result, the option expires worthless, and the option seller (writer) keeps the premium received.

Does the difference between exercise price of the option and spot price affects option premium ? State Yes or No.
Yes

No

¥ CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:

The Option premium is a combination of intrinsic value and time value and other factors.
The Intrinsic value is difference between Spot and Exercise Price (Strike Price).
Exercise price remains constant whereas the Spot price fluctuates.

So the option premium will fluctuate as per the movement in Spot price.

A high initial margin level improves solvency & financial capability of the clearing corporation - True or False ?
True
False

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Higher initial margin collection from trading members reduces the chances of their defaults thus improving the solvency & financial capability of the clearing corporation.

An American put option gives the buyer the right but not the obligations to sell to the writer an underlying asset at a specified price on or before the expiry date - State whether True or
False ?

True
False

¥ CORRECT ANSWER =
Explanation:

The owner of American option can exercise his right at any time on or before the expiry date/day of the contract.

‘The owner of European option can exercise his right only on the expiry date/day of the contract.

State True or False - A futures contract is usually referred to by its delivery month.
True
False

v CORRECT ANSWER A
Explanation:

Akey characteristic of a futures contract that designates when the contract expires and when the underlying asset must be delivered. The exchange on the futures contract is traded will also establish a delivery
location and a date within the delivery month when the delivery can take place.

Not all futures contracts require physical delivery of a commodity, and many are settled in cash.

Delivery Month is also referred to as “contract month."

Mr A sold a put option of strike Rs.400 on PQR stock for a premium of Rs.32. The lot size is 500. On the expiry day, PQR stock closed at Rs. 350. What is his net profit or loss?
-25000 (Loss)
-9000 (Loss)
9000 (Profit)
25000 (Profit)

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

-9000 (Loss)

Explanation: 4
Mr. A sold a PUT option, that means he has a bullish or neutral view on PQR stock.

However, PQR stock has fallen by Rs 50 ( 400 - 350).

Which means he has lost Rs 50.

Since he has sold a PUT, he will receive the premium which is Rs 32.

So his net loss will be Rs 50 (Loss) - Rs 32 (Premium Recd) = Rs 18

Total Loss = Rs 18 x 500 (lot size) = Rs. 9000