Qo The strategy of buying a put option on a stock you are owning is known as

Calendar spread
Aggressive put
Protective put
Straddle

7 CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

A Protective Put strategy involves buying a put option on a stock that you already own to hedge against potential downside risk.

« If the stock price falls, the put option gains value, offsetting losses in the stock.
* Ifthe stock price rises, the put option expires worthless, but the investor benefits from stock appreciation.
* This strategy is commonly used by investors who want to protect their portfolio while still participating in potential upside gains.

245.  allactive members of the Exchange are required to make initial contribution towards Trade Guarantee Fund of the Exchange - State True or False ?

True
False

Vv CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Main objectives of Trade Guarantee Fund (TGF):

- To guarantee settlement of bonafide transactions of the members of the exchange.
+ To inculcate confidence in the minds of market participants.

- To protect the interest of the investors in securities.

All active members of the Exchange are required to make initial contribution towards Trade Guarantee Fund of the Exchange.

24° An increase in the interest rates will lead to

increase the premium on put options

decrease the premium on put options
No effect on put options

Expiration of the option automatically

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

decrease the premium on put options

Explanation:

An increase in interest rates generally leads to a decrease in put option premiums due to the following factors:

Higher interest rates reduce the attractiveness of holding cash or risk-free assets, making put options (which provide downside protection) less valuable.

The cost-of-carry effect—since put options involve selling the underlying asset, the higher interest rate increases the opportunity cost of holding short positions, thus lowering demand for puts.

Call options, on the other hand, tend to see an increase in premiums when interest rates rise due to lower borrowing costs for leveraged equity investments.

247, Ina forward contract, the party that’s agrees to sell the underlying asset on a certain specified date for a certain specified price is said to have assumed.

Along position

a square off position
a short position

a trade off position

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

a short position

Explanation:

Ina forward contract, there are two parties:

- One party agrees to buy the underlying asset in the future —- Takes a Long Position.

- The other party agrees to sell the underlying asset in the future — Takes a Short Position.

Since the question states that the party agrees to sell the asset at a future date for a fixed price, that party has taken a short position.

248 Mr. Hitesh is a trading member. One of his clients has purchased 12 contracts of March series index futures and another client as has sold 10 contracts of March series index futures.
The exposure of Mr. Hitesh as trading member is .

grossed up at 22 contracts

netted out at 2 contracts

maximum of 10 and 12 which is 12 contracts

The Exchange will decide to either gross up or net out the exposure depending upon his past record

¥ CORRECT ANSWER oN
Explanation:

The open position of all the clients of a trading member are grossed up to arrive at the total exposure of the trading member.