28: The derivatives segment of a Stock Exchange is under the same governing council as the cash segment - State True or False ?

True
False

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

False
Explanation: 4

The derivatives exchange/segment has a separate governing council and no common members are allowed between the Cash segment Governing Board and the Derivatives segment Governing Council of the
exchange.

284 You have bought a futures contract and the price drops, you will

Make a notional profit

Make a notional loss

given information is incomplete to arrive at a conclusion
none of the above

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

For eg. You bought a futures contarct of 1000 shares at Rs 500. The price drops to Rs 480. Therefore there is a notional loss of Rs. 20 (500 - 480) x 1000 shares = Rs 20,000.

This is a notional loss and not an actual loss. The actual profit / loss will happen only when you square up the contract.

285 Stock price is ‘

same as in the near month future contract
same as exercise price of an option

same as strike price of an option

the price of the underlying in the spot market

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Stock price or Spot price means the current market price of that stock in the cash market.

286. a naked call option strategy means that the writer does not currently owns the underlying - State True or False ?

True
False

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

An options strategy in which an investor writes (sells) call options on the open market without owning the underlying security.

This strategy is sometimes referred to as an “uncovered call" or a “short call".

7 Factor(s) influencing option pricing include which of the following ?

time to expiration

volatility of the underlying shares
Interest rates

all of the above

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

There are five fundamental parameters on which the option price depends upon:
1) Spot price of the underlying asset

2) Strike price of the option

3) Volatility of the underlying asset’s price

4) Time to expiration

5) Interest rates

These factors affect the premium price of options in several ways.