In an Index Futures contract, the tick size is 0.2 of an index point & the index multiple is Rs 50, then ‘a tick’ is valued at.
Rs 50
Rs 100
Rs 10
Rs 2.50

XX WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Rs 10
Explanation:
Rs 50X0.2=Rs 10.

Each tick movement will result in profit or loss of Rs 10 for the Index buyer or seller resp.

O06: The securities which are placed by clearing members with the clearing corporation as a part of liquid assets are
marked to market on a periodical basis
is not marked to market as they are blue chip shares
may or may not be marked to market depending on the decision of the Stock Exchange
None of the above
¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:
As per Prof. J. R. Verma Committee recommendations the securities placed with the Clearing Corporation shall be marked to market on a periodical basis (weekly).
57.
" Contract month means
Month in which the transaction is done
Month of expiry of the futures contract
Month of beginning of the futures contract
None of the above
¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:
Contract month is the maturity month of the contract.
For eg - A trader may buy a March month contract in January.
So March will be the contract month.
Q 58.

Initial margin is calculated based on____
Average price movement in the last 5 working days
Value-At-Risk (VAR) based margining.
fixed at 25% for most of the scrips and 35% for volatile scrips
As per the The Black & Scholes Model

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Initial margin requirements are based on 99% value at risk over a one day time horizon.

Daily ‘Trading Price Limits’ define the maximum percentage by which the price of a future contract can rise above or fall below the previous days settlement price - State whether True or
False ?

True
False

v CORRECT ANSWER 4a
Explanation:

A price limit is the maximum range that a futures contract is allowed to move up or down within a single day. Price limits are re-calculated every day. When price limits are reached in one day, the variable price
limits might be implemented to expand the initial limits to the variable amount for the next trading day.