Q76.

Q77.

Q80.

Qsi.

Q 82.

The gain or loss is realized on daily basis due to mark to market mechanism in which of the following contracts ?
Forward Contracts
Contracts in Swaps
Future market contracts
Equity Cash Market contracts

짜 CORRECT ANSWER 4
Explanation:

Futures contracts have two types of settlements: (A) the mark-to-market (MTM) settlement which happens on a continuous basis at the end of each day, and (B) the final settlement which happens on the last
trading day of the futures contract.

The market price of a share is Rs 120 and the 110 Call is quoted at Rs 24, what is the intrinsic value of this Call option ?
Rs. 10
Rs. 20
Rs. 34
Rs. 130

짜 CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Option Premium consists of two variables - Intrinsic Value and Time Value.

In the above case, the cash market price is 120 and the strike price is Rs 110. So the Intrinsic value is Rs 10 (120 - 110 ). The balance of option premium ( 24 - 10 ) ie. Rs 14 is the time value.

The main logic behind Position limits is to :
prevent the market being unduly influenced by the activities of an individual/group of investors
prevent the market being unduly influenced by Central Govt policies
give direction to the market to move up or down as determined by SEBI
to encourage high networth investors to provide direction to the market

v짜 CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:

Position limits are the maximum exposure levels which the entire market can go up to and each Clearing Member / Trading member or investor can go up to.

Thus no investor can take an extra ordinary large position and influence the direction of a scrip / market.

The seller of the put option gains if price of underlying asset
Decreases
Increases
Does not change
Both 2 and 3

> WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Both 2 and3

Explanation:

The seller of PUT option is either bullish or neutral. He gains the premium received if the underlying increases or remains flat.

MrA buys a call option with lower strike price and sells another call option with higher strike price both on the same underlying share and same expiration date, the strategy is
called

Bull Spread

Bear Spread

Butterfly Spread

Calendar Spread

짜 CORRECTANSWER A
Explanation:

A bull call spread is constructed by buying a call option with a low strike price, and selling another call option with a higher strike price.

Futures trading is considered more risky than equity trading due to
high leverage
High pressure
high volatility
high liquidity

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

high leverage
Explanation:

Traders can trade in derivatives by paying a small margin ( around 25 to 30% of the total contract value), This leverage increases the risk as the trader can take up positions beyond his capacity.

Institutional investors pay higher margins than the individual investors for derivatives trading - State True or False ?
True
False

v CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:

The margin requirement is same for both individual investors and institutional investors.