Diversification is used to control Systematic Risks - True or False ?
True
False

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

False
Explanation:

Systematic Risk (also known as market risk) refers to the risk that affects the entire market or a broad range of assets — such as interest rate changes, inflation, recessions, geopolitical events, etc.
This type of risk cannot be eliminated through diversification because it impacts all investments across the board.

Diversification helps reduce unsystematic risk — which is specific to a particular company or industry, and can be controlled by spreading investments across various sectors or asset classes.

Therefore, diversification controls unsystematic risk, not systematic risk.

279. A trader sold on ABC Stock Futures Contract at Rs.354 & the lot size is 900. What is the traders profit or loss if he purchases the contract back at Rs.341 ?
Rs 11700

- Rs 11700 (Loss)
Rs 8300
- Rs 8300 (Loss)

v¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

He sold at Rs 354 and bought back at Rs 341 which means he has made a profit.
Rs 354 - Rs 341 =Rs 13

Rs 13 X 900 (Lot size) = Rs 11700 Profit

271, When would a trader make a profit on a short position of September futures?

when he buys a October future at a lower price

when he sells another September future at a lower price

he square of this short position by buying the September future at lower price
when he sells October futures at a lower price.

¥ CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:

Profit can be made in a short position when the price falls and the same is bought back.
For eg - You sold a stock at Rs 100 ie. created a short position. When price falls to say Rs 80 and you buy it back, you make a profit of Rs 20.

In case of futures, you have to square up in the same expiry month.

272. Which of the following is not an application of indices?

index derivatives
exchange traded funds
private equity funds
Index funds

v¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Private Equity Funds are not connected to any index nor are they listed on a stock exchange.

273: Options contracts are not symmetrical with respect to rights & obligations of the parties involved - State True or False ?

True
False

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

The buyer of an option has a right but not the obligation in the contract. Also his risks are limited to the extent of premium paid.
The writer/seller of an option is one who receives the option premium and is thereby obliged to sell/buy the asset if the buyer of option exercises his right. His risks are unlimited.
Thus Option contracts are not symmetrical as the buyers and sellers have different obligations and risk factors.

On the other hand obligations and returns in Futures are symmetrical for both buyer and sellers.

7A. . os q e ees,
= Time value and intrinsic value of a call option are always either positive or zero- True or False ?

True
False

v CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:

Only in-the-money options have intrinsic value whereas at-the-money and out-of-the-money options have zero intrinsic value. The intrinsic value of an option can never be negative.

Time value also can never be negative.