Q 30.

Q31.

Q32.

Q33.

When there is a ‘Closing buy transaction’, this will have the effect of partly or fully offsetting F
Across position
A short position
A high position
Along position

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

A short position

Explanation:
Creating a Short Position means selling the asset on an exchange with a view to buy it back when the price falls.

So a Closing Buy transaction will be used to buy back / offset the short position created.

Mr P and Mr Q are brokers of a stock exchange . Both of them have maintained Rs 7 crores of liquid assets consisting of equity shares and other assets. Both have the same exposure
limits on day one. Based on this, which of the following statements is true ?

The minimum exposure possible for the two brokers may change from time to time based on the changes in those asset valuations, even if they do not withdraw the assets deposited

The minimum exposure possible for the two brokers will remain same for ever, even if they withdraw the asset deposited subsequently

The minimum exposure possible for the two brokers will remain the same forever as long as they do not withdraw the assets deposited

None of the above

%X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

The minimum exposure possible for the two brokers may change from time to time based on the changes in those asset valuations, even if they do not withdraw the assets deposited

Explanation: 4A

The exposure depends on the value of assets deposited. Although both P and Q have deposited assets worth Rs.7 crores, the assets could be different (equity shares of different companies) and the value of
these will become higher or lower as time passes. So the exposure limits will also change accordingly.

Ms. Deepika is bearish on the market, so she is expecting the market to
Rise
Fall
Remain constant
Move sideways

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:
Investors who have a bearish on the stock or index expect the stock price or index level to fall, take a short position in the stock futures or index futures contract.

(Investors who have a bullish view on the underlying stock or index expect the stock price or index level to increase and they take a long position in the stock futures or index futures contract).

Identify the True formula for Cost of Carry model.
Price of Futures = Cost of carry
Price of Futures = Spot price
Price of Futures = Spot + Cost of carry
Price of Futures = Spot - Cost of carry

v CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Cost of Carry is the relationship between futures prices and spot prices. For stock derivatives, carrying cost Is the interest paid to finance the purchase.

For example, assume the share of XYZ Ltd is trading at Rs. 500 in the cash market. A person wishes to buy the share, but does not have money. In that case he would have to borrow Rs. 500 at the rate of, say,
12% per annum, So 1% ie. Rs 5 ( 1% of Rs 500) is the per month interest cost. and this Rs 5 is the cost of carry.

‘The future price (ideally) at the beginning of month will be Spot Price + Cost of Carry ie. Rs 500 + Rs 5=Rs 505.