Q43.

Q44.

What happens to a 'Day Order if its not executed during the day?
The Order will be executed in the auction market
The Order will be executed in the after-hours
The Order will be executed on the next trading day
The Order will be cancelled automatically at the end of the day

v¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

A Day order is an order which is valid for a single day on which it is entered. If the order is not executed during the day, the trading system cancels the order automatically at the end of the day.

Is it true that at expiration, the value of an option is its intrinsic value?
Yes, its true for all options
No, its not true for all options
Yes, its true but only for Call options
Yes, its true but only for Put options

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Yes, its true for all options

Explanation:

At expiration, the exercise settlement value for each unit of the exercised contract is computed as follows:
Call options = Closing price of the security on the day of exercise - Strike price

Put options = Strike price - Closing price of the security on the day of exercise.

In other words, the final settlement amount is equal to the intrinsic value of the option at expiration.

The strategy of involves options with different strike prices but same expiry dates.
Straddle
Calendar spreads
Vertical spreads
Diagonal spreads

XX WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Vertical spreads

Explanation: a
Spreads are option strategies which involve combining options on the same underlying and of same type (call/ put) but with different strikes and maturities. These are limited profit and limited loss positions.
Vertical spreads are created by using options having same expiry date but different strike prices. These can be created either using calls as combination or puts as combination.

This strategy is commonly used to limit risk and reward while taking a directional view on the market.

In an American Put Option, the buyer gets the right but not the obligation to the writer an underlying asset at a specified price
Buy from ; on or before the expiry date
Buy from ; on the expiry date
Sell to ; on or before the expiry date
Sell to ; on the expiry date

v¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

American option: The owner (buyer/holder) of an American option can exercise his right at any time on or before the expiry date/day of the contract.
A Put Option gives the buyer/holder a right to sell the underlying asset.

Therefore an American Put Option gives the buyer the right but not the obligation to sell to the writer an underlying asset at a specified price on or before the expiry date.

Identify which of these is not an application of indices?
Exchange traded funds
Index funds
Index derivatives
Private equity funds

¥ CORRECT ANSWER A
Explanation:

Private Equity Funds are not connected to any index nor are they listed on a stock exchange.

Traditionally, indices were used as a measure to understand the overall direction of stock market. However, few applications on index have emerged in the investment field such as Index Funds, Index
Derivatives, Exchange Traded Funds etc.