Q31.

Q35.

What happens to the unmatched portion of the order in an Immediate or cancel (IOC) order ?
It will be added to the order book as a limit order
It will be executed on the next trading day
It will be executed in the next one hour
It will be cancelled

7 CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Immediate or cancel (IOC): User is allowed to buy/sell a contract as soon as the order is released into the trading system. An unmatched order will be immediately cancelled.

Partial order match is possible in this order, and the unmatched portion of the order is cancelled immediately.

What should be the market-wide position limit for a stock for it to be eligible for launch in the futures and options contracts in the exchange traded equity derivatives segment in India?
At least Rs. 100 crores
At least Rs. 500 crores
At least Rs. 1000 crores
At least Rs. 1500 crores

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

At least Rs. 1500 crores
Explanation: 4a

A stock on which stock option and single stock futures contracts are proposed to be introduced shall conform to broad eligibility criteria for a continuous period of six months. One of the criteria is :
The market wide position limit (MWPL) in the stock shall not be less than Rs 1500 crores on a rolling basis.

When an investor gives instruction to his broker to buy a certain number of contracts at or below a specific price, the order is called as
Market Order
Arbitrage Order
Spread Order
Limit Order

v CORRECTANSWER 4a
Explanation:

Limit order is an order to buy or sell a contract at a specified price. The user has to specify this limit price while placing the order and the order gets executed only at this specified limit price or at a better price
than that.

Under which Act / Regulations is the Suspicious Transaction reporting required?
SEBI Insider Trading Regulations
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA)
Anti-Money laundering (AML) and Combating of Financial Terrorism (CFT) Regulations
Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA)

v CORRECT ANSWER 4a
Explanation:

Under the Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Combating of Financial Terrorism (CFT) regulations, certain suspicious transactions are required to be reported to the Financial Intelligence Unit - India (FIU-IND) set
up by the Government to detect possible attempts at money laundering.

Why are the margins for calendar spreads in index futures low ?
Because calendar spreads are not traded on an Exchange
Because calendar spreads are OTT transaction
Because the market risk is low in calendar spreads
Because calendar spreads are special transactions guaranteed by RBI

¥ CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:

Calendar spread position is a combination of two positions in futures on the same underlying - long on one maturity contract and short on a different maturity contract.

Calendar spreads carry only basis risk and low or no market risk ie. no risk even if market rises or falls by a big amount - hence lower margins are adequate.