Q36.

Q38.

Q39.

Q40.

A hedger wants to offset the price risk on his equities, so he will take
Along positions in futures
Ashort positions in futures
Along position in Call
Both a long or short position in futures

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Hedgers face risk associated with the prices of underlying assets and use derivatives to reduce their risk.

If a person has a portfolio of equity stocks, he can sell futures to offset the price risk.

In the Option segment, if you buy a CALL at a premium of Rs 35 at the Strike Price of Rs 400, lot is of 200 shares, then the maximum possible profit is
Rs 400
Rs 7000
Rs 43000
Unlimited

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

When you buy a CALL option, your losses are limited to the extent of premium paid, but your profits, theoretically can be unlimited as the price of the underlying can rise to any levels.

When the price of an underlying rises, the price of an CALL option will also rise and so you can have unlimited profits.

Who can trade in derivative products?
Any broker who is registered with SEBI can trade in derivative products
Any broker who is registered with SEBI for trading in derivatives products can trade in derivatives
Any member of a registered Stock Exchange
All of the above

> WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Any broker who is registered with SEBI for trading in derivatives products can trade in derivatives
Explanation:

Anormal equity market SEBI registered broker cannot deal in derivatives. The broker has to be specially registered for dealing in derivative products with SEBI to deal in derivatives.

A Call Option will give the holder of the option a right to buy how much of the underlying from the writer of the option?
The specified quantity or more than the specified quantity
The specified quantity or less than the specified quantity
Only the specified quantity

Y CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

Only the specified quantity as per the lot size of the option contract.

Those contracts which have been initiated but are not yet offset by a subsequent sale or purchase or by making or taking delivery are considered as
Offsetting Positions
Clear Positions
Open Positions
Squared-off Positions

v CORRECTANSWER 4
Explanation:

Outstanding / unsettled position in various derivative contracts is called “Open Position”.

For instance, if Mr. X shorts 5 contracts on Infosys futures and goes long on 3 contracts of Reliance futures, he is said to be having open position, which is equal to short on 5 contracts of Infosys and long on 3
contracts of Reliance. If on the next day, he buys 2 Infosys contracts of same maturity, his open position would be - short on 3 Infosys contracts and long on 3 Reliance contracts.