Qs.

As a Call option moves more Out-Of-The-Money, the absolute value of Delta will
Increase
Decrease
Not change
None of the above

Y CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:

The Delta of a call option measures how much the option's price is expected to move for a ?1 change in the price of the underlying asset. For call options, Delta ranges between 0 and 1.

* When a call option is Out-Of-The-Money (OTM), its Delta is closer to 0, since it's less sensitive to changes in the underlying price.
« As it moves further OTM, the absolute value of Delta decreases even more.
* Conversely, Delta increases as the option becomes In-The-Money, nearing 1.

So when the call option becomes further OTM, it becomes less responsive to changes in the underlying asset—hence, Delta decreases.

Counterparty risk can also be called as
Credit Risk
Default Risk
Both 1 and 2
Speculative Risk

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Both 1 and 2

Explanation:
Counterparty risk is the risk of an economic loss from the failure of counterparty to fulfil its contractual obligation.

This risk is also called default risk or credit risk.

A penalty or suspension of registration of a stock broker from derivatives exchange/segment under SEBI (Stock Broker and Sub-broker) Regulations, 1992 can take place if
The stock broker fails to resolve the complaints of the investors

The stock broker indulges in manipulating, or price rigging or cornering of the market
The stock broker does not follow the code of conduct
All of the above

v CORRECT ANSWER A
Explanation:

Apenalty or suspension of registration of a stock - broker under the SEBI (Stock Broker)
Regulations, 1992 can be ordered if:

~ The stock broker violates the provisions of the Act

+ The stock broker does not follow the code of conduct

- The stock broker fails to resolve the complaints of the investors

- The stock broker indulges in manipulating, or price rigging or cornering of themarket

- The stock broker’s financial position deteriorates substantially

= The stock broker fails to pay fees

= The stock broker violates the conditions of registration

+ The stock broker is suspended by the stock exchanae

At the time of final settlement, the seller / writer of the option will recognize the adverse difference he paid tothe buyeras____in his profit and loss account.
Expenses
Loss
Debt
Profit

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Loss

Explanation:
On exercise of the option, the seller/writer will pay the adverse difference, between the final settlement price as on the exercise/ expiry date and the strike price. Such payment will be recognised as a loss.

Its the duty of the Clearing Corporation to continuously analyse and modify the initial margin requirements as the stock markets tend to be very volatile - State whether True or False?
False

True

¥ CORRECT ANSWER a
Explanation:
Initial Margin levels should be dynamic and calculated continuously based on volatility levels. The Clearing Corporation does this activity using modern mathematical tools.