Q20.

Q21.

Q23.

Losses incurred on derivative transactions on a ‘recognized stock exchange’ can be carried forward to subsequent assessment year and set off against any other non-speculative
business income of the subsequent year.

5

8

12

15

¥ CORRECT ANSWER EN
Explanation:

Loss incurred on derivatives transactions which are carried out in a recognized stock exchange can be carried forward for a period of 8 assessment years.

The price at which the underlying asset can be bought or sold on exercise of an option is called
Spot Price
Risk Premium
Strike Price
Option Premium

¥ CORRECTANSWER

Explanation:
Strike price or Exercise price is the price per share for which the underlying security may be purchased or sold by the option holder.

In an ‘Opening Buy Transaction’ the effect will be that of creating or increasing _s-
Arbitrage position
Cross position
Long position
Short position

¥ CORRECTANSWER

Explanation:
Opening a position means either buying or selling a contract, which increases client’s open position (long or short).

Opening a Buy transaction means creating or adding LONG positions with a view that the price will increase.

The initial margin in derivatives market depends on the volatility of the underlying market. Usually
Higher the volatility, Lower the initial margin
Higher the volatility, Higher the initial margin
Lower the volatility, Higher the initial margin
None of the above

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

If the stock is very volatile it could result in looses to the trader in a short period of time. So to safe guard the trading member and the trader, higher initial margin are levied on volatile stocks.

In general terms, if the number of participants in a market are more, the liquidity will be low - State True or False?
True
False

v¥ CORRECT ANSWER

Explanation:
Liquidity in the context of stock market means a market where large orders are executed without moving the prices.

So if there are more the participants, higher should be the liquidity.

All types of investors should allot some portion of their portfolio to derivative products in order to increase the portfolio returns irrespective of their risk tolerance levels - State True or
False ?

True

False

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

False
Explanation: A

Derivatives are ideally used as a hedging product and not investment products. Also, as a stand alone investment, they can prove to be very risky. So investors who do not want to take risks, senior citizens etc,
should not trade / invest in derivative products.