Qi1.

Qi2

Q13.

Qis.

When a person enters into a forward contract, the loss that can occur on the position is
known
unknown

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:

When a person enters into a forward or a futures contract, his profits or losses are uncertain as it depends on the movement of prices.

(Only in the case of buying an option, the losses are fixed ie. premium paid)

You sold a call option on a share. The strike price of the Call was Rs 250 and you received a premium of Rs 16 from the option buyer. What can be the maximum loss on this position?
Unlimited
Zero
Rs. 250
Rs. 234

¥ CORRECT ANSWER 4
Explanation:

When you sell a Call Option, you believe that the price will fall.

If the price rises, you start making losses. Prices can rise theoretically to unlimited levels, so the losses can be unlimited.

Clearing Member Mr. Prabhu focuses mainly on proprietary trading, while Clearing Member Mr. Mehta does not do any proprietary trades and does trades only for clients. If both have
deposited the same amount of assets with Clearing Corporation, which of the following statement is true?

Mr. Prabhu enjoys a lower exposure limit than Mr. Mehta

Mr. Prabhu enjoys a higher exposure limit than Mr. Mehta

Both of them enjoy the same exposure limits

XX WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Mr. Prabhu enjoys a higher exposure limit than Mr. Mehta

Explanation: 4
On Indian stock exchanges, exposure limits are influenced by risk perception and type of trading activity:

+ Mr, Prabhu: Engages in proprietary trading (i.e., trades on his own account). Since the risk is limited to himself and not to clients, the risk to the Clearing Corporation is lower.

- Mr. Mehta: Trades only for clients. This involves client-related risks (e.g., default risk, regulatory compliance), so the clearing corporation assigns stricter risk controls and lower exposure limits for client-only
clearing members.

Even if both have deposited the same collateral, proprietary traders are generally allowed higher exposure limits due to the lower systemic risk they pose.

Atickis ts
Minimum price difference between two buy quotes
Minimum price difference between two sell quotes
Both 1 and 2
None of the above

¥ CORRECTANSWER 4
Explanation:

Tick Size is the minimum move allowed in the price quotations.

(Eg - Suppose the tick size is 5 paise. A buyer has entered an order to buy at Rs 100. If some other buyer wants to enter a buying quote at a higher price, he can quote the price as Rs 100.05 and not 100.01)

A stock index like Nifty F
is a basket of stocks
can be easily manipulated
Both 1 and 2
None of the above

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

is a basket of stocks

Explanation:

Stock Index like Nifty and Sensex consists of a basket of stocks and so its very difficult / almost impossible to manipulate the index.