Qo.

Q 10.

Calendar spreads carry basis risk and no market risk - hence margins are charged.
Higher
Lower
NIL
Very high

¥ CORRECT ANSWER
Explanation:
Calendar spreads carry only basis risk and no market risk - hence lower margins are adequate.

That is why margin on calendar spread transaction in index futures is lower than the sum of regular margin on two independent legs of spread transaction.
(Basis risk arises when the price of a futures contract does not have a predictable relationship with the spot price, which is very rare.

Market risk is the risk that the price of a stock etc. will increase or decrease due to changes in market factors)

A long or short position in a futures contract can be closed by initiating a reverse trade - State True or False?
True
False

v CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:
Aclosing transaction is one that reduces or eliminates an existing position by an appropriate offsetting purchase or sale. This is also known as “squaring off” your position.

Aclient is said to be closed a position if he sells a contract which he had bought before or he buys a contract which he had sold earlier.

When it is said that there is cash settlement of an index futures contract, it means that the contract is settled in cash with no delivery of the underlying - State whether True or False?
True
False

¥ CORRECT ANSWER A
Explanation:

Index futures are always cash settled.

Individual securities can be cash settled or by delivery.

Which of these complaints against a trading member can an Exchange take up for redressal?
Claims for expenses incurred for taking up the matter with the ISC
Losses for transaction which are not within the framework of exchange
Claims for opportunity loss for the particular disputed trade
Excess brokerage charged by a broker

v¥ CORRECT ANSWER

Explanation:

Compiaints against trading members on account of the following can be taken by an Exchange for redressal :
- Non-receipt of funds / securities

- Non- receipt of documents such as member client agreement, contract notes, settlement of accounts, order trade log etc.
- Non-Receipt of Funds / Securities kept as margin

- Trades executed without adequate margins

- Delay /non — receipt of funds

- Squaring up of positions without consent

- Unauthorized transaction in the account

- Excess Brokerage charged by Trading Member

- Unauthorized transfer of funds from commodities account to other accounts etc.

In exercising a Put option on a stock, the option holder acquires from the option writer
a short position in the underlying stock
a long position in the underlying stock
a strangle position in the underlying stock
a butterfly position in the underlying stock

X WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

a short position in the underlying stock
Explanation:
The buyer / holder of a Put option is of the view that price of the underlying will fall.

He thus acquires a short position on exercise.