Q48.

Q 49.

Q 23.

Default risk is also known as
Credit Risk
Counterparty Risk
Both of the above
None of the above

v CORRECT ANSWER A
Explanation:

Counterparty risk is the risk arising out of the default of a counterparty to the transaction. It is the risk of an economic loss from the failure of the counterparty to fulfil its contractual obligation. This risk is also
called default risk or credit risk.

It is generally not applicable to clients trading in exchange-traded equity derivatives because the settlement of such transactions is guaranteed by the exchange / clearing corporation,

What is a ‘Stock Option’?
Its a debt instrument
Its a derivative instrument
Its a foreign exchange instrument
Its a money market instrument

v¥ CORRECTANSWER
Explanation:

Stock option: These options have individual stocks as the underlying asset. For example, option on ONGC, NTPC, etc. These options are derivative instruments.

On announcement of the record date for merger/demerger, the unexpired futures and options contracts on the underlying securities which are outstanding on the last cum date

Will compulsorily be settled at the settlement price on the last cum date

Will continue to be traded till their expiry date

Will be squared up by the broker at the day’s opening price

Will be closed-off by the merged /demerged company at a predetermined price

% WRONG ANSWER
CORRECT ANSWER:

Will compulsorily be settled at the settlement price on the last cum date

Explanation: 4
On announcement of the record date for merger/demerger, the last cum-date for merger/demerger would be determined by the Exchange/ Clearing Corporation.

Un-expired contracts in the underlying, which shall cease to exist subsequent to the merger/demerger, outstanding as on last cum-date shall be compulsorily settled at the settlement price. The settlement price
shall be the last available closing price of such underlying in the Capital Market segment of the Exchanges, on the last cum-date.

Mr. Ashish is a portfolio manager and he is bullish on the market. What should be his course of action ?
He should sell index futures
He should sell index call option
He should buy index futures
He should sell his complete portfolio

@ UnAttempted
CORRECT ANSWER:

He should buy index futures

The main proof of whether a futures transaction is for speculation or hedging is based on whether there already exists a related commercial position which is exposed to risk of loss due
to price movement - State True or False ?

True

False

® UnAttempted
CORRECT ANSWER:

True

Explanation:

Hedgeing basically means making a trade to reduce the risk of adverse price movements in an asset which you already hold. Normally, a hedge consists of taking an offsetting position in a related security, such
as futures contract

For eg. -A company will be receiving dollars after three months. So to safe guard against any fluctuations, it sells dollars in the futures market (3 month futures) and locks in the price.